In this lecture we will talk about the dependency injection and what is a dependency injection.
Well simply put it's when you inject some dependencies for a class like let's say this counter class
instead of fetching something like for example using first aid.
So basically phosphate is actually a static interface to the service container.
So if you will go by out clicking to the cash for class what you can see is that it basically extends
our base for say class and then has this method implemented get phosphate access or which returns the
service name it happens to be cash for the cash for seed and for all the other facets you can see that
it basically works the same.
So to put it simply for seed is just a way to access service container in a simple way.
But we were supposed to talk about that dependency injection.
So basically you have two options in your larval application it's either using four seeds or dependency
injection.
So let's get straight to that point.
So dependency injection as the name suggests is injecting something to a class that needs something
instead the class or instead of the class asking for the dependency itself using phosphate for example
or the resolve function that you see here.
So typically you will pass dependencies inside the constructor and you can even typing them so we have
a dependency on the counter class then we utilize this in the utilize the counter fields so this would
be available in other methods too.
Now let's also define this field on the controller.
So private calendar and also let us do the same on the user controller.
So let's modify its constructor to accept our counter parameter of the type up services counter.
Let's also copy that implement the code so it will immediately as the field and define it as private.
Counter now what we can do is now we can not try to resolve the dependency ourselves.
Instead it has been passed to us.
So this happens automatically by Lavell.
So now instead of accessing counter variable which doesn't exist anymore in this context we do this.
Sorry this
counter and now we have access to the counter class so we will do the same on the post controller instead
of resolving this dependency.
It gets passed by Lavell so we do this counter and basically now we have this counter class available
and it was being passed by a lot of it automatically because it can pass something when you define it
as a constructor argument.
It will now try to either find a service with this name on the service container which happens to be
defined because we have defined that explicitly.
So the service name is the full name of this class or alternatively if no service is defined explicitly
Lovell will use peach bee functionality called reflection which allows you to get some meta information
about your code.
In this case it will be able to figure out what are the older parameters to this class constructor and
what are the types of those parameters.
So since we have typing that discounter as the counter class it will try to find and create a counter
class or alternatively if this is a service it will try to inject the service that was defined.
Now this would be problematic if you wouldn't define this service explicitly because it accepts a primitive
parameter and primitive values are integers strings or arrays.
So anything else than a class or an interface because with classes it can also figure out what to inject
by finding those classes but then it will have no idea what you mean by timeout
now the services inside the service container might need either primitive values or classes which are
basically also services or both.
But in this case since we only need the primitive value you can also define this differently.
So instead of creating a single tone here you might just tell Lavell that whenever it needs to inject
a class of a certain type it should pass a specific value for a specific variable.
So you will do it like that.
This up this up when now you specify the class name which is counter class needs.
And here you specify the variable name that this class needs which is time out including the dollar
needs timeout.
Then give and we can also use the environment variable like above
something like this.
So now if we will do something like this D.D. on this counter
and refresh the page you can see that we actually got an instance of the class with the proper value
passed.
But this doesn't work for singletons.
So this now is not a singleton and we wanted that to be it so let's comment that out but just so you
know if you're only in need to pass some primitive value like integer or string then you do not really
have to define the whole service.
You just can say what to pass when certain primitive value is needed.
So now let's remove this line.
We won't need that anymore.
We can also remove this line and in the next lecture what we will learn is how we can actually replace
using spades and depending on something that we have to fetch ourselves and pass all the necessary dependencies
using dependency injection.
In this case this would be removing the use of cash for seed.
And another thing dependence on the session.
So you can see that this is a helper function and it's essentially the same as using for seed.
So if you will out click this method it's actually using that up method which in turn is the same as
the resolve method.
So you can use one of those depends on well which one you prefer.
But just remember that you will stick to the one so you either use up or you either use resolve.
So as I've said this session function helper function is basically resolving something from the surface
container.
In this case this is the session service of the service container and there is this session for sale
also which does exactly the same thing but just a little bit different.
So let's see that in the next lecture.